draft-lenders-dns-llns.md, before:

---
title: "Guidance on DNS message composition over Low-Power and Lossy Networks (LLNs)"
abbrev: "TODO - Abbreviation"
category: bcp

docname: draft-lenders-dns-llns-latest
number:
date:
consensus: true
v: 3
submissiontype: IETF
area: "Applications"
workgroup: TBD
keyword:
 - Internet-Draft
 - CBOR
 - DNS
venue:
  group: TBD
  type: Working Group
  mail: TBD@example.com
  arch: "nicfs.nic.ddn.mil:~/namedroppers/*.Z"
  github: "anr-bmbf-pivot/draft-lenders-dns-llns"
  latest: "https://anr-bmbf-pivot.github.io/draft-lenders-dns-llns/draft-lenders-dns-llns.html"

author:
 -  fullname: Martine Sophie Lenders
    organization: Freie Universität Berlin
    abbrev: FU Berlin
    email: m.lenders@fu-berlin.de
 -  fullname: Thomas C. Schmidt
    organization: HAW Hamburg
    email: t.schmidt@haw-hamburg.de
 -  fullname: Matthias Wählisch
    organization: Freie Universität Berlin
    abbrev: FU Berlin
    email: m.waehlisch@fu-berlin.de

normative:

informative:


--- abstract

TODO Abstract


--- middle

# Introduction

TODO Introduction


# Conventions and Definitions

{::boilerplate bcp14-tagged}


# Security Considerations

TODO Security


# IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.


--- back

# Acknowledgments
{:numbered="false"}

TODO acknowledge.

Commit message:

Start with snips from DoC draft and e-mail discussions

draft-lenders-dns-llns.md, after:

---
title: "Guidance on DNS message composition over Low-Power and Lossy Networks (LLNs)"
abbrev: "TODO - Abbreviation"
category: bcp

docname: draft-lenders-dns-llns-latest
number:
date:
consensus: true
v: 3
submissiontype: IETF
area: "Applications"
workgroup: TBD
keyword:
 - Internet-Draft
 - CBOR
 - DNS
venue:
  group: TBD
  type: Working Group
  mail: TBD@example.com
  arch: "nicfs.nic.ddn.mil:~/namedroppers/*.Z"
  github: "anr-bmbf-pivot/draft-lenders-dns-llns"
  latest: "https://anr-bmbf-pivot.github.io/draft-lenders-dns-llns/draft-lenders-dns-llns.html"

author:
 -  fullname: Martine Sophie Lenders
    organization: Freie Universität Berlin
    abbrev: FU Berlin
    email: m.lenders@fu-berlin.de
 -  fullname: Thomas C. Schmidt
    organization: HAW Hamburg
    email: t.schmidt@haw-hamburg.de
 -  fullname: Matthias Wählisch
    organization: Freie Universität Berlin
    abbrev: FU Berlin
    email: m.waehlisch@fu-berlin.de

normative:

informative:


--- abstract

This document provides guidance on the composition of DNS messages in low power and lossy
networks, where payload sizes can be heavily restricted by the link layer.

--- middle

# Introduction

Low power and lossy networks (LLNs), such as IEEE 802.15.4 or LoRaWAN, often come with restrictions
to the protocol data unit (PDU) in the link layer. While adoption layers such as 6LoWPAN
{{?RFC4944}} and SCHC {{?RFC8724}} provide mitigation in the form of compression and fragmentation
to allow for IPv6 traffic, restricting the application data to a minimum size greatly increases
reliability. This document provides guidance on the composition of DNS messages to prevent
fragmentation in LLNs.


# Terminology

TBD

{::boilerplate bcp14-tagged}

# LLN Node Considerations

Nodes within an LLNs are only to assumed stub resolvers. That means they only query information from
an upstream DNS server but MUST NOT distribute DNS information, possibly received from an upstream
DNS server, themselves.

# DNS Server Consideration

A DNS server that is aware that the querying node is a node within an LLN SHOULD resolve a CNAME
until the originally requested resource record type is reached. This reduces the number of message
exchanges within an LLN.

The DNS server SHOULD send compact answers, i.e., additional or authority sections in the DNS
response should only be sent if needed or if it is anticipated that they help the DoC client to
reduce additional queries.


# Security Considerations

TODO Security


# IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.


--- back

# Acknowledgments
{:numbered="false"}

TODO acknowledge.

- Carsten Bormann
- Ben Schwartz
